1: Find the Babe
\#Adlia
\#StoryOfLife
\#SicIturAdAstra
\#VitaAdAstra
\#GaiaAdAstra
\#ChristopherShea


\#Adlia settles herself into the couch.
With her family all around, the youngest in her lap, she prepares to listen to that story once again.
Ritual, those actions we repeat, Adlia thought to herself for the thousandth time, though they probably lost any rational excuse for being generations, perhaps millennia ago. 
Actions we repeat simply for the comfort, the marking of time, for the repetition in and of itself, the litany of litanies. This was one she loved. One of the most ancient, one told to dispel fear of the dark and to marshal faith that light will not fade, it will return. From its very genesis the story was about the Earth, the Sun and Life. Gaia. Those first tellers, beside their hearths so many hundreds of lifetimes ago huddled around their fires against the cold, the dark, and their fears of the night named the players differently, but, she thought, except for the difference in languages they would be able to understand today's telling. That’s what she liked so much about this. Her life became part in it, this story as old as humanity itself. The story was told once a year, every year by trillions of voices. The content of the story was pretty much irrelevant. It was all in the telling. The story is the story, the telling, the tale. It had been so for thousands of years before she was born and would continue for thousands of years more. The definitive version, for her the baseline from which all others were measured was told in ancient times by #ChristopherShea and only took about a minute or so. As much as Adlia loved every nuance, every cadence of the Shae version she knew a live telling was best.


“It’s Life” she’s telling her brood in what is their family ritual only a handful of generations old, “The story told by people under an open sky in a region very near to where Life’s awakening began. We don’t know exactly when or what the first tellings were like but we do know that the repetition of some astronomical occurrences had been noticed.” Adlia loved to tell this, it was her verse in the litany though she didn’t have a set script, she wandered a bit each time, in each telling, “Maybe it was lunar phases. I think that probably was it because of it’s short cycle. But maybe it was the solstice or perhaps something else. Who knows. Whatever it was people began to predict it. They danced or chanted or killed something in sacrifice and took credit for each recurrence - probably believed it themselves and why not? People’s dawning understanding of their world must have been terrifying. A sense of having some influence in that maelstrom of massive powers that surrounded them must have been part of keeping sane. Priestesses or sorcerers felt they had some ability to, some influence in it all. And their people so desperately wanted to believe they weren't completely at the mercy of uncaring powers and events. This had to do with the awakening itself; people changed from basically reactive, animal living to intentional living. They started farming. To farm well they needed to know when to plant and when to gather. Learning and knowing took on ever more evolutionary significance. Who knows which was the byproduct and which was the main event but either way, they got two goodies for the price of one. They knew their solstice and began telling stories to explain it. They learned something about their place in space that helped feed them and their languages and cultural memories began getting more complex, creating the foundation for far greater complexity in the future. Different peoples told the stories a little differently. They told them in different languages. Gaia herself spoke to her children as local environments and crops began directing the tellings.  Local cultures emerged. But all those peoples had the astronomical engines in common. Solstices, equinox. The daily rhythms and the monthly lunar. The stars guided them and beckoned them all with the same hand. The stories travelled, and changed, merged got added too and chopped to bits.  Over time they tended to sort of group into families, like languages and even cultures themselves. Eventually a just few versions dominated. It’s one of them we tell at this time, the time of the winter solstice in the lands of those first tellers, as we have for at least ten thousand years. This story, children, is among the first stories Life told itself about itself. It is the #StoryOfLife.”


She gathers herself together, sort of drawing in and hugging the baby. She sips from her cooling mug of tea. There’s a faint chime sounding as if it had come from a great distance yet crystal clear. The lights dim and the image, a woman in a simple robe appears in a shimmering globule of light. She faces each person regardless of where they sit.


“And there were in the same country shepherds…” Adlia drifted off on the dulcet harmonics of the voice, letting it waft over and around her sensorium filling her being with The Story of Life. “You shall find the babe wrapped…” She  knows it word for word, of course. She’d delivered the tale on many an occasion herself. But it’s not the words or even their overall meaning. It’s like travel for the sake of the road, not the destination. Just the road. ”Good will toward all.”


When it ends they share a few moments of quiet with many of the 460 billion minds now in the human family and only slowly begin to shift and move about. The lights come up slowly. Finally the kids begin messing around and a few of the adults get up and begin arranging things for the dinner. Guests will be coming soon. Colored lights flick on, candles are lit, and the fire in the hearth is fed. The room’s contours change to make way for the table and seating.  Above them among the myriad stars a small bluish marble catches her attention. She couldn’t see it, Adlia knew that the cradle of civilization where her tale was first told faced away from them at the moment. Her blue marble was surrounded by a firmament unimaginable by those sheppards,  globe Adlia never had and never would set foot on.


The first guests arrive and Adlia greets them warmly. They give their kisses and get their drinks. The evening’s rhythms, crescendos and codas begin. Talk; some small, some work, some family, none terribly serious. Games with the growing number of kids. Then food and the motions of serving, eating and clearing up. More drinks and more talk, more laughter and games, and then the goodnights. Kids staying the night put to bed and the adults staying on finally relaxing, unwinding, drinking, and enjoying the dancing fire under those stars that never lose their magic. It is all part of the ritual.


This is LIFE, Vita, she’d often thought. The experience, the reason for it, and the steps taken down that road, taken for the sake of a journey she felt was still only at the beginning.


. . .


#Gorm finished his breakfast and neatened up the kitchen as his wife, #Ing scanned the family news. Her brother on the moon posted a new sculpture that played with light beautifully, casting rainbows across a carter wall. Both their parents and grands were doing well.  A notice flashed that a cousin was organising Gorm’s great great grandmother’s birthday and calling for help and warning that it might hit public news feeds again. Fourth gen were rare. She was among the first million births off planet and had her first family at a young age. She’d be 125 years old.


“Can you help with things around Ali’s party?” asked Ing. “I guess I should but there’s just too much to do on the ship right now.”


“You wonder if there comes a time when celebrating trips around the sun gets boring. Maybe we could just count her circuits of galactic center instead?”


She looked at him, eyebrow raised.


“Ok, sure.” he said. “Will it be on Luna?”


“Dunno. Call cousin Sara, she’s listed as boss this time.”


“Do we know her?” Gorm asked playing hopeful.


“She’s not that cousin,” Ing winked at her husband, “I don’t think I’ve met this one.”


“Too bad. Your family has some fine stock.” he kissed her before letting her spin away from him. “Maybe she’ll be some fun too?”


“Maybe… tell me?”


“If you like.”


Ing was already distracted with her coming day’s work. She slid into her pod, a transparent hemisphere looking out not far from the south pole of her L4 orbital. She could rotate it in place but usually she barely noticed the view sliding by. Other habs were visible and ships moving between them or to other parts of their cislunar system. She opaqued the glass and brought up her schedule. Soon she had a call with her team leads so she scanned the daily data.  Everything looked about as she expected. Her current prototype was just a little behind schedule. They should be able to catch up before launch. But her long term resource projections were at risk and if they failed the entire project would be mostly pointless.


Stuff, as in raw material from the moon and the asteroids was so abundant that it wasn’t worth the bother of private ownership. Energy was free and for all intents and purposes for life in the inner sol system, infinite. So shifting even large amounts of stuff was economically roughly free.  Time was sometimes an important limiting factor, hence a condition of value but by the time Ing sat in her pod wondering about her project’s long term prospects a train of asteroidal material was already arriving via orbital mechanics to solve more than day to day needs required. On top of that, the moon, though the primary chunk of stuff around was virtually untouched. Labor was done by robots, built by other robots on free energy.


Ing’s issue was somewhat related to ordinary resource priorities but that was solvable. Her main concern was political.


Politics of the world in 2158 were strange. She knew her history and understood that the state of affairs in which humanity found itself was the genuinely strange bit. Existence with, for the first time in recent millennia, perhaps ever, unlimited energy and resources. The only limiting factor was time, as a function of distance. But that was quite different than it had been, at least to those off planet. The human population of Earth was pushing 25 billion but the population off-planet was 20 times that, approaching half a trillion. Terran population growth had flattened decades ago while space based was skyrocketing. It would double within the next 20 years. Earth hadn’t been able to support itself since near the start of the space age, gaining new energy and material resources had been a major justification for the huge initial investment. Though numerically the current state wasn’t particularly surprising, other aspects were.


Life down the well, as Ing thought of it, seemed a lot like having short lived pets you never saw or played with and which had no actual relevance in your world. It was an interesting gene bank, sure, but even that utility was nothing more than  historical or theoretical. The planet supplied some resources but nothing vital anymore. It provided some luxuries but everything had to be sterilized and quarentiend. It was a place for extreme vacations and “touch the history” nuts. Since most spacers lived with much lower gravity it took major preparation for one to walk the surface without a habsuit - essentially a spaceship built for one. Full immersion sims were how the vast majority experienced their womb-world and anything else they wanted.


In part due to high terran gravity, in part do to diseases Earthbound people’s life expectancy had risen but not much. Mostly, more people lived to about 100, a few got to 120.The space based peoples lived lives that were getting longer with each generation. 120 year olds were enjoying a rough equivalent to middle age. Projections indicated that a 300 year lifespan was theoretically attainable with many hoping it might be more. So far though, not enough people had died of natural causes for statistical models to be very predictive. So far most of the first million born in space were still alive and healthy. Accidents and violence had taken more of us than old age or disease.


All these factors contributed to conflicting political pressures and movements. The planetbound felt it, they had lost all practical significance yet were completely dependant on the rest. They had become a sort of historical park. They were afraid of things spacers experienced as common, such as gravity assisted launches of structures bigger than a small hab. For spacers Earth’s main benefit was just that, the closest gravity-well, second in size in the inner system only to the sun. And yet they demanded a say in further development and restriction of the one value their planet, but not they, had.


Perhaps the biggest source of tension was that Earthers resented the longer, healthier lives spacers enjoyed. Migration upward continued but those who reached adulthood in the mud rarely lived beyond 120. More of them reached the #BigDozen decades but that was about it. Research into why was inconclusive and primarily interesting only to the terrans themselves.


A sort of culture speciation was occurring. The cost of launch and relocation was not small. It took most people most of their working lifetimes to save enough to be able to consider it. Holidays in space were of course a big business, but an option available only to the wealthier half once, maybe twice in a lifetime. Only the top 10% or so could think of it more often. So most people who made the move had never been to space at all, and it cost them everything to move there. They were not exactly unwelcome, but they were not exactly useful either. Except for a few media stars from earth spacers found no reason to associate with Earthers. It became the norm that Earthers went to space to live out their lives in retirement communities primarily administered by robots. Once up they were cared for by the basic economy.




The ship she was building was nearing an important milestone. It would be pushed down toward the sun on it’s first leg out into the asteroid belt where she’d ferried rocks into its path for the major construction. It was already huge, nearly a tenth of the biggest orbital. It would grow to more than a hundred times the volume and almost five times the mass in the next four years. She’d been on the project for over 60 years. This would be the culmination of her team’s testing, proofs, and failures, a prototype for the first interstellar constellation that was still just a concept. This project had its roots before the space age and captured Ing’s imagination in her school years.
