1: Find the Babe
\#Adlia
\#StoryOfLife
\#SicIturAdAstra
\#VitaAdAstra
\#GaiaAdAstra
\#ChristopherShea


\#Adlia settles herself into the couch.
With her family all around, the youngest in her lap, she prepares to listen to that story once again.
Ritual, those actions we repeat, Adlia thought to herself for the thousandth time, though they probably lost any rational excuse for being generations, perhaps millennia ago.
Actions we repeat simply for the comfort, the marking of time, for the repetition in and of itself, the litany of litanies.
This was one she loved. One of the most ancient, one told to dispel fear of the dark and to marshal faith that light will not fade, it will return. From its very genesis the story was about the Earth, the Sun and Life.
Gaia.
Those first tellers, beside their hearths so many hundreds of lifetimes ago huddled around their fires against the cold, the dark, and their fears of the night named the players differently, but, she thought, except for the difference in languages they would be able to understand today's telling.
That’s what she liked so much about this.
Her life became part in it, this story as old as humanity itself.
The story was told once a year, every year by trillions of voices.
The content of the story was pretty much irrelevant.
It was all in the telling. The story is the story, the telling, the tale.
It had been so for thousands of years before she was born and would continue for thousands of years more.
The definitive version, for her the baseline from which all others were measured was told in ancient times by #ChristopherShea and only took about a minute or so.
As much as Adlia loved every nuance, every cadence of the Shae version she knew a live telling was best.

“It’s Life” she’s telling her brood in what is their family ritual only a handful of generations old.

“The story told by people under an open sky in a region very near to where Life’s awakening began.
We don’t know exactly when or what the first tellings were like but we do know that the repetition of some astronomical occurrences had been noticed.”

Adlia loved to tell this, it was her verse in the litany though she didn’t have a set script, she wandered a bit each time, in each telling.

“Maybe it was lunar phases.
I think that probably was it because of it’s short cycle.
But maybe it was the solstice or perhaps something else.
Who knows. Whatever it was people began to predict it.
They danced or chanted or killed something in sacrifice and took credit for each recurrence - probably believed it themselves and why not?
People’s dawning understanding of their world must have been terrifying.
A sense of having some influence in that maelstrom of massive powers that surrounded them must have been part of keeping sane.
Priestesses or sorcerers felt they had some ability to, some influence in it all.
And their people so desperately wanted to believe they weren't completely at the mercy of uncaring powers and events.
This had to do with the awakening itself; people changed from basically reactive, animal living to intentional living.
They started farming.
To farm well they needed to know when to plant and when to gather.
Learning and knowing took on ever more evolutionary significance.
Who knows which was the byproduct and which was the main event but either way, they got two goodies for the price of one.
They knew their solstice and began telling stories to explain it.
They learned something about their place in space that helped feed them and their languages and cultural memories began getting more complex, creating the foundation for far greater complexity in the future.
Different peoples told the stories a little differently.
They told them in different languages.
Gaia herself spoke to her children as local environments and crops began directing the tellings.
Local cultures emerged.
But all those peoples had the astronomical engines in common.
Solstices, equinox.
The daily rhythms and the monthly lunar.
The stars guided them and beckoned them all with the same hand.
The stories travelled and changed, merged got added too and chopped to bits.
Over time they tended to sort of group into families, like languages and even cultures themselves.
Eventually just a few versions dominated.
It’s one of them we tell at this time, the time of the winter solstice in the lands of those first tellers, as we have for at least ten thousand years.
This story, children, is among the first stories Life told itself about itself.
It is the #StoryOfLife.”

She gathers herself together, sort of drawing in and hugging the baby.
She sips from her cooling mug of tea.
There’s a faint chime, sounding as if it had come from a great distance yet crystal clear. The lights dim and the image, a woman in a simple robe appears in a shimmering globule of light.
She faces each person regardless of where they sit.

“And there were in the same country shepherds…”
 Adlia drifted off on the dulcet harmonics of the voice, letting it waft over and around her sensorium filling her being with The Story of Life.
 “You shall find the babe wrapped…”
 She knows it word for word, of course.
 She’d delivered the tale on many an occasion herself.
 But it’s not the words or even their overall meaning.
 It’s like travel for the sake of the road, not the destination.
 Just the road.
 "Good will toward all.”

When it ends they share a few moments of quiet with many of the 460 billion minds now in the human family and only slowly begin to shift and move about.
The lights come up slowly.
Finally the kids begin messing around and a few of the adults get up and begin arranging things for the dinner.
Guests will be coming soon.
Colored lights flick on, candles are lit, and the fire in the hearth is fed.
The room’s contours change to make way for the table and seating.
Above them among the myriad stars a small bluish marble catches her attention.
She couldn’t see it, Adlia knew that the cradle of civilization where her tale was first told faced away from them at the moment.
Her blue marble was surrounded by a firmament unimaginable by those shepherds, globe Adlia never had and never would set foot on.

The first guests arrive and Adlia greets them warmly.
They give their kisses and get their drinks.
The evening’s rhythms, crescendos and codas begin.
Talk; some small, some work, some family, none terribly serious.
Games with the growing number of kids.
Then food and the motions of serving, eating and clearing up.
More drinks and more talk, more laughter and games, and then the goodnights.
Kids staying the night put to bed and the adults staying on finally relaxing, unwinding, drinking, and enjoying the dancing fire under those stars that never lose their magic.
It is all part of the ritual.

This is LIFE, Vita, she’d often thought.
The experience, the reason for it, and the steps taken down that road, taken for the sake of a journey she felt was still only at the beginning.
